---
title: Component Overview
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Component Overview

The following explains the main components of the Arc Agent Framework.

See the [Manual Setup](/docs/manual_setup) section for an example on how these components work together.

### Agent Interface

The Agent interface is at the core of the Arc Framework and defines an Agent.
The interface is very generic allowing for different types of agents to be implemented.

```kotlin
interface Agent<I, O> {

    val name: String

    val description: String

    /**
     * Executes the agent with the given input and context.
     * The objects passed as the context can be accessed within the Agents DSL using DSLContext#context.
     */
    suspend fun execute(input: I, context: Set<Any> = emptySet()): Result<O, AgentFailedException>
}
```

#### ChatAgent

The `ChatAgent` is the main implementation of the Arc Agent interface.

As the name suggests, `ChatAgent`s are agents that conduct a conversation with the client/user.
They take a `Conversation` object as input and outputs the `Conversation` containing a new message.

See the [Conversations](#conversation-model) section for more details on conversations.


### AgentProvider/LLMFunctionProvider Interface

The `AgentProvider` provides Agents to other components in an application 
and the `LLMFunctionProvider` provides LLM functions to the Agents.

These `Providers` usually consolidate all `Loaders`, 
see [Loaders](#agentloaderllmfunctionloader-interface), within an application.
Therefore, each application should have at most one `AgentProvider`.

When using the `arc-spring-boot-starter`, the `CompositeAgentProvider` and `CompositeLLMFunctionProvider`
are automatically configured as the default `Providers`.

These `Providers` combine all `AgentLoader`s, `LLMFunctionLoader`s
and any Agents or LLM functions that were injected directly into the Spring Context.

### AgentLoader/LLMFunctionLoader Interface

`AgentLoader`s and `LLMFunctionLoader`s create and load Agents and LLM functions respectively.

Unlike `Providers`, an application may have multiple `Loader`s.

The common `Loader`s are the `ScriptAgentLoader` and `ScriptingLLMFunctionLoader`
that loads Agents and functions from Kotlin scripts.

Agents and functions can also be loaded as Spring Beans. See [Spring Agent Beans](spring/agent-beans)

### AgentFactory Interface

The `AgentFactory` is responsible for converting Agents defined in the Agent DSL into an actual implementation.
    
```kotlin
 /**
  * Factory for creating agents from Agent Definitions.
  */
 fun interface AgentFactory<T : Agent<*, *>> {
     fun createAgent(agentDefinition: AgentDefinition): T
 }
```

The most common implementation is the `ChatAgentFactory` which creates `ChatAgent` instances from the agent DSL.


### ChatCompleter Interface

A `ChatCompleter` generates a response to a given message.
In most cases, this interface is implemented by an LLM client.

See the [Clients](/docs/clients) section for a list of supported clients.


### ChatCompleterProvider Interface

The `ChatCompleterProvider` simply provides a `ChatCompleter` for a given model id.
The model id is defined in the `model` field of an Agent.

Note: It is up to the implementation of the `ChatCompleterProvider` to decide 
how to handle cases where a `ChatCompleter` is not found for a given model id.

Checkout the [LangChain4J](/docs/clients/langchain4j) client for an example of a `ChatCompleterProvider`.


### BeanProvider Interface

A `BeanProvider` provides arbitrary beans that are used within the Arc Agent DSL.

These beans can be accessed from anywhere within the Agent DSL using the `get<BeanClass>()` method.

Example

```kotlin
agent {
    name = "weather-agent"
    description = "A helpful assistant that can provide information about the weather."
    prompt {
        val weather = get<Weather>()
        """
         You are a helpful assistant that provides weather information.
         The current weather is $weather.
        """
    }
}
```

When using the `arc-spring-boot-starter`, a `BeanProvider` providing access to all beans in the spring context is
configured automatically.


### Conversation Model

The `Conversation` object represents a conversation between a client and an Arc Agent, such as a ChatAgent.
It contains the entire transcript of the conversation, both client and agent messages,
plus some metadata about the conversation.

Each `Conversation` object should be associated with a `User` who acts as the owner of the conversation.
This prevents unauthorized users/clients from accessing a conversation.
Furthermore, the `User` id may also be used as a key to store user/client specific data.

Messages are usually be one of 2 types:

- `UserMessage` - messages sent by the user/client.
- `AssistantMessage` - messages generated by the Agent.

`SystemMessage`s, messages that contain instructions for the Agent, are usually not store in the conversation
transcript.
